# Abundant Bacterial Species in YOUR Beyond Bacteria Sample

All four Beyond Bacteria participants had very different microbiome profiles
when looking at the top ten genera detected in each participant. The microbiome
composition of each participant provided intriguing bits of food for thought.
Disclaimer: science is not at the stage to confidently assess human health
status based on the microbiome, and the American Gut is not a medical
diagnostic. The microbiome could also follow the old adage that too much of a
good thing is a bad thing, and not enough studies have been done to determine
whether certain abundance thresholds of “good” bacteria become harmful. Only
time and well-designed, peer-reviewed research will tell us how useful
microbiome composition can be as a proxy for predicting human health status.

Your gut microbiome (000010538) was composed mainly of Prevotella copri
(14.21%), Eubacterium eligens (13.35%), and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii
(11.75%). Akkermansia muciniphila was also present, at an abundance of 9.16%.
As discussed above, P. copri has been indicated in rheumatoid arthritis and
potentially in GI tract inflammation, although the evidence remains preliminary
in both cases, particularly in the case of GI tract inflammation. In contrast,
both E. eligens and F. prausnitzii have been associated with GI tract health.
Both are plant polysaccharide fermenters, with E. eligens appearing to be
negatively correlated with obesity and F. prausnitzii acting as an
anti-inflammatory in the gut. A. muciniphila, too, has been implicated multiple
times in GI tract health. You appear to live a healthy lifestyle, exercising
daily outdoors, drinking alcohol infrequently, and consuming a large variety of
plants as part of your normal diet. Therefore, the presence of a potentially
“harmful” bacterial species as the most abundant species in your gut is
curious; nevertheless, you also harbor a large proportion of health-associated,
plant polysaccharide-fermenting species.
