# Abundant Bacterial Species in YOUR Beyond Bacteria Sample

All four Beyond Bacteria participants had very different microbiome profiles
when looking at the top ten genera detected in each participant. The microbiome
composition of each participant provided intriguing bits of food for thought.
Disclaimer: science is not at the stage to confidently assess human health
status based on the microbiome, and the American Gut is not a medical
diagnostic. The microbiome could also follow the old adage that too much of a
good thing is a bad thing, and not enough studies have been done to determine
whether certain abundance thresholds of “good” bacteria become harmful. Only
time and well-designed, peer-reviewed research will tell us how useful
microbiome composition can be as a proxy for predicting human health status.

Seven of the top ten species detected in your gut microbiome (000011924) were
Lactobacillus species, and an additional two were Bifidobacterium species, both
of which are generally typified as the probiotic strains. As discussed, many of
these species have been tested for their probiotic potential in a number of
contexts and have a wide range of purported effects, from a reduction in
adiposity to a reduction in allergy related inflammation. The large proportion
of Lactobacillus spp. in your gut is definitely curious, though the cause for
this cannot be determined from the lifestyle information you provided. In
general, you appear to live a healthy lifestyle, eating a variety of vegetables
and exercising daily. Nevertheless, you are slightly underweight on the BMI
scale. You did use antibiotics in the year prior to collecting your sample. An
attempt to prevent or correct antibiotic-induced microbiome dysbiosis via the
ingestion of probiotics could potentially explain the large amount of
probiotic-like species in your gut, but without this specific information, this
potential explanation remains conjecture.
