# Abundant Bacterial Species in YOUR Beyond Bacteria Sample

All four Beyond Bacteria participants had very different microbiome profiles
when looking at the top ten genera detected in each participant. The microbiome
composition of each participant provided intriguing bits of food for thought.
Disclaimer: science is not at the stage to confidently assess human health
status based on the microbiome, and the American Gut is not a medical
diagnostic. The microbiome could also follow the old adage that too much of a
good thing is a bad thing, and not enough studies have been done to determine
whether certain abundance thresholds of “good” bacteria become harmful. Only
time and well-designed, peer-reviewed research will tell us how useful
microbiome composition can be as a proxy for predicting human health status.

An archaeon, Methanobrevibacter smithii, was the most abundant taxon (20.40%
abundance) in your sample (000004607), followed by Akkermansia muciniphila (16.6%
abundance). Both of these taxa have been negatively associated with obesity, as
discussed above, indicating that your microbiome may be enriched for microbial
taxa that are efficient at effectively utilizing food energy. A. muciniphila
has also been described to exert anti-inflammatory effects, as has
butyrate-producing F. prausnitzii, which was also present in this participant
(6.19%). In general, the composition of your microbiome is suggestive of a
healthy microbiome that is not only efficient at utilizing nutrients from food
but is also actively involved in promoting intestinal health. Indeed, based on
the data you provided, you appear to be relatively healthy, at a normal weight,
with only occasional alcohol consumption and no smoking or antibiotic use;
however, other lifestyle habits are not traditionally associated with the
“golden standard” for health: you eat few vegetables but a lot of meat and
seldom exercise. Therefore, you represent a good example of the difficulty in
predicting health status and lifestyle habits solely via the microbiome, and
you underscore the fact that the relationship between the microbiome and
lifestyle is quite complex.
